[Music]
how colorblind people see the world
everyone's heard about colorblindness a
significant number of global celebrities
such as Bill Clinton Keanu Reeves Mark
Zuckerberg and even Prince William are
known to be color blind but do you know
what color blindness is color blindness
also known as color vision deficiency is
not a disease but to decrease the
ability to see color or differences in
color
approximately everyone in twelve men and
one in 200 women are affected by it so
there's a high probability that someone
you know a neighbor or a co student is
colorblind there are four different
types of colorblindness each of them
provides deficiency in different color
shades for a person with normal vision
it is hard to imagine what it is like to
be colorblind and how people like this
see the world which color do they see do
they see any at all what does it mean
not to be able to see red and so on that
is why we at bright side prepared a
visual comparison of all color blindness
types and put them together for your
better understanding let's have a look
together people with normal vision
usually see the world around them in
these colors however people with
deuteron Opia the first type of color
blindness see the same picture like this
deuteron Opia is the most common form of
colorblindness around four point six
three percent of men suffer from it and
in many cases don't even realize it it's
clear from the photo that the colors
have lost some of their brightness
especially with regard to green and red
[Music]
and people was protanopia see these
pencils like this protanopia is a less
widespread form of colorblindness only
around 1% of men experience all shades
of green and red appears somewhat faded
and blue and yellow shades remain
virtually unchanged the third type of
color blindness is Triton Opia and they
see colors like this though a very rare
type of colorblindness Triton Opia
affects both men and women to an equally
small degree those who experience it see
the world in greenish pink tones the
last type is total color blindness it is
hard to imagine but it exists however
only a small percentage of people are
affected by it only zero point zero zero
zero zero three percent of the whole
world's population and now let's have a
look at the straight comparison how
about a piece of fruit normal vision
deuteron Opia protanopia Triton Opia
and together impressive isn't it
and now traffic lights it is widely
known that people with color vision
deficiency can have difficulties while
driving by looking at these pictures you
will understand why here is normal
vision that's deuteron opium
this is protanopia and that's Triton
Opia and together again quite an
eye-opener
a popular soda label normal vision due
to Renault Pia protanopia Triton Opia
together my world will never be the same
what about a rainbow rainbow with normal
vision
was deuteron Opia
with protanopia
with Trident Opia together so Richard of
York gave battle in vain
indeed Street traffic look at the street
car normal vision deuteron Opia
protanopia
try to Nokia
together
and now the final example frida kahlo
was a Mexican painter in the first half
of the 20th century was she ever
thinking about how her paintings could
be seen by colorblind people well we
don't know about Frida but you are going
to see it right now normal vision due to
Renault Pia protanopia tridon Oh Pia and
together beautiful
are you still with us then here are some
historical facts for you
colorblindness as a vision deficiency
was discovered by English chemist John
Dalton after he realized that he was
color blind himself in 1798 he published
the first scientific paper related to
the subject which was called
extraordinary facts relating to the
vision of colors due to his immeasurable
input into the research of
colorblindness the general condition has
been named after him and known as
daltonism though as wikipedia states in
english this term is now used only for
deuteron opium was this video
interesting share your opinion in the
comments below and hit the like button
below the video the more likes we get
the more videos we can make for you
[Music]
you